Timestamp	what is your role in road construction	how long have you worked in road construction in Zimbabwe	Briefly describe the road construction project(s) you are referring to in this questionnaire (location, size, etc.)	How often do you encounter problematic soils in road construction projects in Zimbabwe? (Always/Often/Sometimes/Rarely/Never)	Which of the following problematic soil types have you encountered?  	Describe the methods your company uses to identify and locate problematic soils in the planning and pre-construction stages of road projects.	How do you differentiate between different types of problematic soils in the field? (visual, physical tests, etc.)	Which of the following reclamation methods are currently used for problematic soils in Zimbabwe? (Select all that apply)	On a scale of 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree), how effective do you find the following reclamation methods for problematic soils? [1]	On a scale of 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree), how effective do you find the following reclamation methods for problematic soils? [2]	On a scale of 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree), how effective do you find the following reclamation methods for problematic soils? [3]	On a scale of 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree), how effective do you find the following reclamation methods for problematic soils? [4]	On a scale of 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree), how effective do you find the following reclamation methods for problematic soils? [5]	What are the main disadvantages of the current reclamation methods used in Zimbabwe?	On a scale of 1 (Not a Challenge) to 5 (Major Challenge), how much of a challenge do the following pose when dealing with problematic soils? [Increased construction costs]	On a scale of 1 (Not a Challenge) to 5 (Major Challenge), how much of a challenge do the following pose when dealing with problematic soils? [Delays in project completion]	On a scale of 1 (Not a Challenge) to 5 (Major Challenge), how much of a challenge do the following pose when dealing with problematic soils? [Difficulty achieving desired road stability]	On a scale of 1 (Not a Challenge) to 5 (Major Challenge), how much of a challenge do the following pose when dealing with problematic soils? [Increased maintenance needs after construction]	What soil properties are most critical to consider when characterizing problematic soils for road construction? (e.g., moisture content, grain size distribution)	Which of the following methods does your company use to characterize the properties of problematic soils? (Select all that apply)A combination of the above	How important is collaboration with geotechnical engineers in characterizing problematic soils for your projects?			
2024/03/25 10:57:02 pm EET	civil engineer	between 15 and 25 years	"1. Lupane-Nkayi road construction
2. Bulawayo-Nkayi road widening
3. Murambinda-Birchenough road realignment
4. Harare-Gweru road dualisation
5. Norton-Murombedzi road reseal
6. Harare-Masvingo road widening
7. New Parliament road surfacing
8. Kadoma-Mamina road realignment "	Always 	Clay with high shrink-swell potential;Sandy soils with low bearing capacity;Lateritic soils;Sodic soils.	Laboratory tests: Atterberg limits tests, shrinkage tests and swelling test.	Visual and tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement;Pre-collapsing	5					Although they have got many advantages, the main disadvantage is time consuming and laborious.	4	4	1	4	Grain shape, size distribution, organic content and mica content.	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples;Consulting geological surveys and maps	Civil Engineers and Geotechnical Engineers they work hand in glove.	3	4	2
2024/04/22 1:19:40 pm EET	civil engineer	between 15 and 25 years	Road and bridge construction and maintenance in Zimbabwe, specifically Matabeleland Provinces and Mashonaland West	sometimes	Clay with high shrink-swell potential;Sandy soils with low bearing capacity	Insitu material survey (soil survey) reports and related geological investigations	First with visual site reconnaissance and confirmed with standard laboratory tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement	5					Very little cost effectiveness	4	1	1	1	volumetric activity, grading, bearing capacity, chemical composition	A combination of the above	Very important, they provide critical design data	4	3	2
2024/04/22 2:37:00 pm EET	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	Bulawayo-Tsholotsho rd 8/8 Lupane-Nkayi rd 8/8	Often	Clay with high shrink-swell potential;Sandy soils with low bearing capacity;Lateritic soils	We sent our Laboratory to do soil profile of the road section	Physical test	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Geosynthetics (fabric used for reinforcement);Soil replacement	1					"Running out of specific types of gravel 
Other materials need to be imported "	3	4	2	1	Moisture content	A combination of the above	They have vast knowledge in materials 	4	2	3
2024/04/22 5:23:21 pm EET	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	Rehabilitation of Harare roads ..more than 100km  cost 25million usd  projects 	Always	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Soil investigations 	Visual and physical tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Soil replacement	4					Expensive 	4	4	3	3	Grain size distribution 	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples	Very important in road construction 	1	3	2
2024/04/24 8:33:45 pm EET	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	"Harare Gweru
Harare Chirundu "	Often	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	"DCP
CBR "	Visual, tests	Soil replacement	3					Costly	4	3	2	2	Moisture content 	A combination of the above	It is very important 	4	5	2
2024/05/01 8:11:47 pm EEST	civil engineer	more than 25 years	500km projects 	Often 	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Atterberg tests 	Visual and physical test 	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Geosynthetics (fabric used for reinforcement);Soil replacement				Chemical stabilization		Cost	4	4	4	4	MC 	Laboratory testing of soil samples	Very 			
2024/05/01 8:39:23 pm EEST	civil engineer	less than 5 years	HARARE-DOMBOSHAVA, Harare-chirundu, Hwedza mushandira	Often 	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Geotechnical investigations 	Physical tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement	Geosynthetics			Chemical stabilization	Mechanical stabilization	Construction costs becomes high 	4	4	3	2	Grain size distribution	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples;Consulting geological surveys and maps;A combination of the above	Very important as they guide how materials are supposed to treated and the spec and clarifications 			
2024/05/01 9:05:03 pm EEST	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	Municipal Roads	Sometimes	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Trial pits	Visual and Physical tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel)		Soil replacement		Mechanical stabilization	Chemical stabilization	Lacks cordination and outcome focused	5	4	3	1	Grain size distribution	A combination of the above	Great results achieved from use of specialised skills			
2024/05/01 10:19:46 pm EEST	facility manager	between 15 and 25 years	Highways that is regional, primary and secondary roads mainly, across the nation of Zimbabwe	Often	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Soils testing, dcp 	Both visual and physical tests done prior during design process	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement			Geosynthetics		Soil replacement	It's not sustainable. It will lead to depletion of our soil deposits.	5	5	5	3	Grain size distribution	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples;Consulting geological surveys and maps	We exhausts all the tests and helps to devise economical ways of constructing the roads 			
2024/05/01 10:25:32 pm EEST	consultant	between 5 and 15 years	National Highways, low volume roads, bulk earthworks in zimbabwe and in the region 	Often 	Clay with high shrink-swell potential;Sandy soils with low bearing capacity;Acid sulfate soils	Geotechnical investigations 	Visual and geotechnical tests 	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement			Mechanical stabilization		Soil replacement	Limited reclamation methods and lack of new technologies 	5	4	3	2	Grading, fines content, volumetric changes, dispersive soils	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples;Consulting geological surveys and maps;A combination of the above	Very important 			
2024/05/01 11:58:05 pm EEST	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	Mashonaland central,east and Manicaland. All sizes  , road and bridge projects. Construction and maintenance 		Clay with high shrink-swell potential;Sandy soils with low bearing capacity	Utterberg limit tests 	Through CBR tests, and plasticity tests 	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement			Soil replacement	Chemical stabilization		Very costly, non availability of chemical stabilization materials and geosynthetics . 	5	3	1	3	Soil behavior when subjected to different conditions and the bearing capacity 	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples;Consulting geological surveys and maps	Very critical 			
2024/05/02 9:25:16 am EEST	civil engineer	between 15 and 25 years	Acturus  project, Murewa Madicheche, and Domboshava projects. Two of which are construction upgrading projects and Murewa Madicheche is drainage structure construction	Often	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	dcp test	visual and physical tests	Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime)			Geosynthetics	Mechanical stabilization	Chemical stabilization	Cost	5	5	1	2	grain size distribution	In-situ testing (e.g., cone penetration tests);Laboratory testing of soil samples;Consulting geological surveys and maps;A combination of the above	Very important			
2024/05/02 10:15:46 am EEST	civil engineer	less than 5 years	BB7 land development project in Victoria Falls, 	Sometimes	Sandy soils with low bearing capacity	Use of CBR tests and research including use of similar projects done in the area 	Visual and physical tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Soil replacement		Soil replacement	Chemical stabilization	Mechanical stabilization	Geosynthetics	Some areas containing kalahari sands have a profile thats stretches down more than 5m of sandy soils hence our regular reclamation methods wont be of much help	5	4	3	2	Moisture content, soil profile depth, grain size 	A combination of the above	Its really important since this may come up with a solution that is cost effective and safe			
2024/05/02 12:03:39 pm EEST	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	Ngundu - Tanganda Road	always	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	site soil investigation by trial holes, dcp, profiling ,laboratory soil constant tests	visual	Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement				Chemical stabilization	Soil replacement	it is expensive. it reclaims limited depth 	5	4	3	3	waterlogged sections	A combination of the above	it is very important because recommendations from geotech engineers determines construction methods to be used			
2024/05/02 7:39:06 pm EEST	consultant	less than 5 years	Design projects on flexible and rigid pavements	Often	Clay with high shrink-swell potential;Sandy soils with low bearing capacity	Problematic soils are usually identified during the preliminary stages of Geotechnical surveys	Mostly laboratory tests. However at times you can see by the naked eye that a soil is problematic and further confirmation is done in the laboratory 	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel);Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime);Soil replacement			Geosynthetics	Chemical stabilization	Soil replacement	Soil replacement is the most common method of reclamation in Zimbabwe. This result in land degradation since soil is borrowed from one particular area to replace large volumes of problematic soils. Soil is a finite resource there is a potential of running out of good gravel. 	5	5	4	3	"Atterberg limits, the liquid limit and plasticity index determines the behavior of a soil. 
Sodic soils can be determined by the double hydrometer test, pin hole test and the crum test"	A combination of the above	Geotechnical engineers are the experts in soil mechanics thus collaboration is key in ensuring that they can interpret the results from soil tests and also recommend cheap and effective methods that can be employed to deal with problematic soils. Furthermore they can do an in depth analysis of problematic soils and recommend long lasting solutions of dealing with the problematic soils			
2024/05/03 7:54:01 pm EEST	civil engineer	between 5 and 15 years	Harare kanyemba project, national project	Sometimes	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Soil investigations, or geotechnical investigations	Physical tests	Chemical stabilization (e.g., addition of lime)					Chemical stabilization	They meet the required specs		1			Grain size and pi 	Laboratory testing of soil samples	Very important in guiding construction engineers in their duties			
2024/05/07 4:07:40 pm EEST	civil engineer	between 15 and 25 years	Tokwe Mukosi access road 	Sometimes 	Sandy soils with low bearing capacity	Cement stabilization and blending	Visual 	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel)					Chemical stabilization	Shortage of gravel in some areas and cost of hauling 	4	5	4	4	Grain size distribution, moisture, plasticity 	A combination of the above	Very critical 			
2024/05/14 7:37:43 pm EEST	civil engineer	less than 5 years	Masvingo highway rehabilitation	Sometimes	Clay with high shrink-swell potential	Insutu testing and lab tests	Visual and also through soil tests	Mechanical stabilization (e.g., addition of gravel)				Mechanical stabilization	Soil replacement		5	5	5	5	Moisture content	A combination of the above	It saves time and costs during road construction			
